this Fredrick Nietzsche said many are
stubborn and pursued the path they have
chosen few in pursuit of the goal and
that's one of the things that really
trips people up at the end of the day a
path is an option it's one of the ways
forward but it's the thing that you're
doing right now today so people get
really focused on that they make their
happiness built around that they think
about that as the thing but as the old
saying goes don't confuse the finger
with the moon that it's pointing at
that's where you've got to be really
careful at the end of the day the goal
is the thing that you're trying to
achieve the goal is what you're trying
to get the path is irrelevant the path
is really your best guess it's the thing
you think is going to work but if you
become my optically focused on that if
you think that the path really is the
end thing if you think the finger
actually is the moon then you miss the
objective to which you're fighting for
then you're not gonna have the energy to
keep pushing when things get really hard
because you're going to have mistaken
the way of getting there with the
destination itself and I think that
people a lot of times throw hate on
having a destination on building towards
some big goal of having some grand thing
that they're chasing but as Einstein
said if you want to live a happy life
tie it to a goal not to people not to
things and the reason that he said
people and things they change you've got
no control over them at the end of the
day the only thing that you really
control is yourself at the end of the
day the only thing that you can hope for
is to be going after something that has
a mean something that has purpose
something that really gives you a reason
for being that directs your actions that
becomes the filter by which you judge
everything that really becomes the
center of the gravitational center of
your own universe but it's the goal not
the path so what is it that you really
want you have to identify that to me
everything in life everything in life
starts with the goal and then work your
way backwards don't allow yourself to
get caught up in other people and
putting your happiness and somebody else
in finding purpose in something else and
trying to obtain things have it be
something that
have it be something that you
once you're on the path to becoming
you can find real
[Music]
you've got two choices in life choice
one you can become somebody else choice
- you can become yourself now I really
wish that there was only one choice but
in truth there's not in most people
choose to try to become someone else
because it's a road map its points in
the direction you see someone you
respond to something you admire them you
want to be like them and in that process
you've made your decision in that
process you decided to become somebody
else you have mistaken the finger for
the moon instead you need to understand
that being inspired by somebody does not
mean to become that person to become
that which inspires you it is to
understand fundamentally what is it
about that thing that excites you what
is it what is its essence and when you
can find its essence then you can find
out how it would apply to you and coming
you and as then she says flower does not
think about competing with the flower
next to it it just blooms and that's
really your job is to see the outside
world to see the flower next to you to
understand the amazing things that are
happening all around you all of the
incredible people and the essence of
what they have and what it is that
they've done to bring inside yourself
and find out what does that look like
when it's me not what do I look like
when I'm
them and once you understand the
difference between that then you can
really begin to be something unique you
can become that thing that you were
meant to be that thing that makes you
feel alive and whole and that's it
that's the secret you're just trying to
be something not that's just inspiring
to other people but that you actually
want to wake up every day and be and
that's the [__] thing about it so
escaping you whatever you become a lie
the truth somebody else yourself
whatever it is it's been every day of
your life there and as Albert Einstein
said everybody is a genius but if you
judge a fish by its ability to climb a
tree it will live it's whole life
believing that it's stupid and that's
what confuses people people believe that
they're done because they're not finding
their path they're not defining things
based on what excites them and what they
want to live with every day they're just
looking to what the outside world says
is good and I think it's incredible that
there are other people doing things that
are so extraordinary that we aspire to
be like that but you have to understand
the difference between being like
someone and trying to actually be
so if what inspires you is that somebody
works hard work hard if what inspires
you is that somebody gets up every time
they fail get up every time you fail if
what you like is that they're themselves
with all their weird eccentricities and
quirks then be true to your
eccentricities and quirks but don't try
to embody their eccentricities and
quirks that's the surest way to become
the fish that thinks it's stupid because
it's being judged by trying to climb a
tree
so with Scott Belsky said when 99% of
the people doubt your idea
you're either gravely wrong or about to
make history and that's the terrifying
part you're not gonna know you're not
gonna know the difference but if you're
chasing somebody else's path if your
whole game is emulation if your whole
game is to mimic that which inspires you
you will never find the thing that's
real about you and look I don't know
about you but I can be wrong I can be
gravely wrong I can have people think me
an idiot and try something and fail as
long as it was true to me because then
the lesson that I'm gonna learn is going
to apply it's gonna take me an ever step
closer to actually being the person that
I want to become that I want to live
with every day I can't be
if I don't understand who I want to be
so look inward identify your path
identify what excites you and go after
it as if your life depends on it because
in truth it does
all right listen and listen well because
no truer words are ever gonna be [__]
spoken you can do anything you want
without limitation whatever it is that
you decide you want to make come true in
your life you can do that it is gonna
take an inhuman amount of work you're
gonna have to be prepared to break
yourself in half you are going to have
to learn more than anyone has ever
learned you can have to push yourself
harder than anyone has ever asked you to
push yourself before you're gonna go way
beyond your breaking point you're gonna
run until you vomit you're gonna study
until you fall asleep you're going to
push and push and push and then you're
going to push some [__] more and when
you hit the limit you're gonna push
again beyond that you're gonna force
yourself into an adaptation response and
why because it's Malcolm X said the
future belongs to those who prepare for
it today so if you don't put the work in
today if you don't do the unending
back-breaking work of developing
yourself into something greater the
world is gonna pass you by the people
that are going to own it are gonna be
the ones that did that work and the one
promise that I can make you right now is
that somebody somebody out there is out
working somebody right now is doing the
things that I'm saying somebody right
now is doing the work of failing and get
and getting better and pushing
themselves and triggering that glorious
adaptation response that makes humans
the apex predator someone right now
they're putting in that work and if you
don't the future is gonna belong to them
and as Martin Luther King jr. said you
can't fly than one if you can't run then
walk if you can't walk then crawl but
whatever you do you have to keep moving
forward it's not okay to make excuses
it's not gonna slow people down it's not
okay to ask the world to stop so that
you can step out front it's not okay to
expect little of yourself and demand
great rewards the only thing that's okay
is to be in line with the way that the
world really works and if you want to be
great you've got to become capable of
greatness
you've got to develop your skill set
you've got to take what you have now and
if that's crawling then [__] crawl
but you drag yourself ever forward to a
vision of yourself that is so clear and
so specific that nothing
could knock you off your path because
you my friends know exactly where you're
going you're willing to pay whatever
price it takes to get there and no
matter what anybody says no matter how
many [__] hecklers come for you no
matter how many people try to flow dirt
on you try to stop you try to knock you
down no matter how many [__] people
come for you at night while you sleep
you will rise and you will keep pushing
forward and you can get better every day
and no matter how many times people chop
at you knock you down knock you up the
path you can get back on you will fall
so you can walk you will walk till you
run and then you will run until you fly
and that my friends is the only path
forward so if you want a [__] future
that makes you happy if you want to warm
that you're excited about get your ass
out there and earn it
as ernest hemingway noted the world
breaks everyone and afterward many are
stronger in the broken places but my
question is why isn't everyone to me it
comes down to the strategies that you
use there really isn't anything
objectively good or bad there isn't
anything that happens to you that can't
be overcome there isn't anything that
could happen to you anything that when
you turn inward you can't find a reason
to overcome you can't find a way to put
those pieces back together and that
becomes your job it becomes literally up
to you whether you're going to sit and
wallow and woe is me because what
happened happened and there's no way to
take it back but how you respond what
you bring to that table whether you meet
fire with fire whether you meet that
adversity with falling apart becoming
weaker in the areas that broke or you
bind them and mend them and it becomes
like a weld that literally makes you
stronger is a choice and it's a choice
only you get to make but as Stephen
Hawking said when you complain nobody
wants to help you there are many things
in your life do you have every reason to
complain about you have every reason to
be upset by the things that have
happened to you the most sinister thing
about excuses is they're valid there's a
million reasons why you should be able
to give up there's a million reasons why
you shouldn't need to try that thing
that broke you you should be allowed to
just sit on the ground and here's the
thing that's your right
you have every reason to do it and maybe
people won't even think less of you
but here's the truth why they become
weaker or stronger in the places that
broke and that's a choice of how you
react moving forward the great news is
the best thing that you could do to
become stronger is love yourself and as
Kamal Ravi Kahn said loving yourself as
a practice people think that it's
something that's gonna feel right that
it's gonna feel natural that you're just
gonna turn inward and there it is the
spark of love and joy for yourself
inside yourself but the truth is that's
just not the human experience that's not
the way that it works there's gonna be a
voice inside your head and it's going to
blame you it's gonna say that it's your
fault and no matter how many times
people on the outside tell you that that
is not true that this thing happened to
you that it isn't you it doesn't define
you there will be a voice that's going
to tell you that it does and that's
where you have to fall back on process
that's where you have to realize that
you literally have to practice loving
yourself and that it's okay that no
matter what happened there is absolutely
nothing that invalidates that you're
worthy of your own love but you've got
to practice it you've got to be willing
to do it you've got to be willing to put
in the reps you've got to know that it's
not gonna feel right but you've got to
know on the other side of that is a
vision of your life where you actually
do love yourself because you took the
time to say it you took the time to
practice it you took the time to sit
there and feel stupid and say that you
love yourself and sometimes just putting
in the work is what you need to do to
get strong so put in the work
as Daniel ping said people fail to
achieve mastery not because they aren't
talented but because they aren't
disciplined the wonderful news about the
human condition is you can get good at
anything that you set your mind to it's
just not going to be easy and it's not
gonna be fast but the willingness to put
in that work is what's going to separate
you from everybody else and I'm begging
you to see yourself right now today as
average as know better than anyone else
but I beg you with more force than I
know how to convey with this language to
see yourself as malleable to see
yourself as capable of becoming anything
you want to become to become truly
extraordinary if you can find within
yourself the discipline to stick with it
long enough and as Steve Martin said
perseverance is a great substitute for
talent
everybody wants to talk about who's
talented everybody looks at the person
with innate talents as if they have
something magical but to me it's a gift
it's a handout it's a freebie it hasn't
been earned and no matter what it is
it's only the beginning even somebody
that has talent even if you get an early
win if you let somebody outwork you if
you let somebody who has more
perseverance more grit than you than
they are going to outperform you on
time line the only thing I can guarantee
is you will be out work by somebody
unless you pour your heart and soul into
getting great if you don't take days off
if you put yourself into it as if your
life depended on it when you act like
that then you've got a chance to be
great and as Robert Horry said pressure
can bust pipes but it can also make
diamonds you've got to want that
pressure you've got to want things to be
hard you can't seek out the easy life
you can't just hope and pray that you
can uncover inside of you some talent
that's lay dormant that you didn't know
about that's gonna let things be easy
for you don't want the easy want the
hard want the pressure want the thing
that's going to turn you into something
because when it's easy you don't work
for it when it's easy you don't push
when it's easy you get surpassed by the
person who has to give it their all
who's prepared to do blood sweat and
tears in order to become that thing that
they want to be so badly because they
are so [__] angry that they were
never given anything and with that chip
on their shoulder they're determined to
become anything that they set their mind
to so whether you have talent whether
you don't the only thing that matters is
will you persevere
wounds stick with it long enough to get
great
as Thomas Jefferson said he who knows
best knows just how little he knows this
has been one of the most surreal things
about my experience as an entrepreneur
is that the better I get at it the more
that I do the more I feel lost the more
I feel like there's too much for me to
possibly know and understand and in that
is my power that's literally the source
of my power because I understand that my
journey is one of learning I understand
that as navall Ravi Kant said the
genuine love for reading itself when
cultivated is a superpower the means of
learning are abundant it's the desire to
learn that scarce but if you have that
desire if you cultivate that desire to
learn if you accept that you're in this
big world that is far too big for you to
understand every piece of it but in
recognizing that you don't understand it
all and putting yourself on this quest
to learn obsessively to get better to
fall in love with the actual process of
gaining knowledge if you stay hungry for
that at all times and you don't calcify
your thoughts into Dogma but rather stay
fresh stay naive stay hungry and foolish
to really learn and grow then you
actually obtain power and this is the
part I want people to understand look
past the words and hear what I'm really
saying as you take on the knowledge as
you're learning one thing after another
after another those skills have
practical application and it is that
practical application born of
understanding how little you really know
that allows you to become far more
powerful than the people that think they
know because when they think they know
they stop growing and they think they
know they calcify when they think they
know their thoughts get brittle like
bone and break
[Music]
you think you know nothing and you think
you have to learn everything when you're
really just trying to figure out if
something works if it gets you the
result then those skills become real
they become tested by what you're doing
they are boundless because you're always
trying to find that next thing you're
never self-satisfied you're never self
congratulatory you're simply asking
where do I want to go what skills do I
need to acquire to get there and knowing
that each one of those that you get
brick by brick by brick builds a real
path to where you want to go so fall in
love with the idea that you know nothing
fall in love with the idea that learning
is a superpower fall in love with that
hunger want that want to get better
every day never never be tricked by the
desire to be self-satisfied be never be
tricked by the desire to be great today
never fool yourself into thinking who
you are today is who you can become
I don't care how far you've come I don't
care how many accomplishments are in
your rear view mirror if you fall prey
to that your past will always be bigger
than your future and there's one mandate
that I make of myself and anyone else
that wants to be around that your future
must always be bigger than your past and
the only way for that to be true is to
love how little you really know and to
love how much you can learn
if you just keep going
as Oprah Winfrey said what you dwell on
is what you become once you understand
that humans are the ultimate adaptation
machine and you understand that the
brain actually builds faster and better
connections between the things you think
on you will begin to understand that it
is incredibly important to be thoughtful
about what you think about it's
incredibly important to pick a direction
that you want to grow and to decide who
you want to become and then make that
the center of your focus your thoughts
your time your energy and if you look
inward or if you look outward and you
don't like what you see
remember what Jim Rohn said if you don't
like how things are change it you're not
a tree and that's the beauty that's the
beautiful thing about being a human we
are so plastic and we can change so
dramatically we are so good at adapting
that we forget that's literally what we
do but if you can take control of that
process if you can grab ahold of it and
make it your own if you can make it your
daily obsession to make the most of your
potential to pick a very specific
direction to pick an end goal and end
state and end identity and work your way
backwards find out the steps that you're
going to need to take to get there to
execute and have the willingness to put
in the work to have the willingness to
be both the sculptor and the clay to
understand that the suffering that comes
with that of changing yourself of making
yourself into something great
is a suffering well working it's a
suffering that you should embrace it's a
suffering that you should run towards
because in that suffering you can become
any thing you want so start to dwell on
that dwell on a vision of you being
great dwell on a vision of you
accomplishing your goals dwell on a
vision of you having done this amazing
thing that you want to do dwell on an
image of you being willing to sweat and
bend yourself in half and break if need
to and bleed when necessary to become
the vision of yourself you always knew
you could become dwell on that and
nothing can stop you
as Epictetus said he is a wise man who
does not grieve for things which he has
not but rejoices for those which he has
and that's gratitude isn't it it's the
very base decision that we all have to
make are you grateful for the things you
have in your life or are you always
wanting more and trust me I get it
I understand people that strive for more
I understand people that want something
bigger and better but at the same time
if you allow yourself to only think
about what you don't have to only be
striving for something more that that
obsession will begin to overtake you it
will begin to corrode you but ultimately
it's a choice ultimately at any time
right now in this moment you can stop
and think about what you have you can
put your attention on the things you're
grateful for and watch what it does
watch what it does in that instance the
way that it changes you the way that it
changes your chemistry your feelings in
a moment can shift from negative and
dark to beautiful with nothing else
changing around you nothing but you
deciding that you're gonna focus on the
things you're grateful for nothing but
deciding that there are things in your
life to be grateful for and that is a
decision no matter what is happening in
your life at any moment right now in the
depths of a depression in something
going on terribly in your life you can
choose right now to think about the
things you're grateful for
the breeze a smile from somebody kind a
stranger who holds open a door for you
anything but it's a choice and as
Einstein said there are only two ways to
live your life
one is as though nothing is a miracle
the other is as though everything is a
miracle and what choice are you making
what are you choosing to focus on right
now do you let gratitude fill you up or
not and here's the critical part and I
want you to listen to this really well
whatever you decide whether you decide
we live in a
of miracles or whether we decide we live
in a world devoid of miracles you were
choosing one thing to the exclusion of
the other and when you focus on
something that you're grateful for when
you look at those little moments in your
life and choose to see them as grand
miracles even winning is only a gentle
hand on your shoulder even then it's
only a kiss from somebody who you've
kissed a thousand times before even when
it is only holding the hand of somebody
who needed their hand held even when
it's something that simple it really is
a miracle that it really is something
that can fill you it really is something
that will change your chemistry bring a
connection between two people allow you
to see a grander Vista or even just open
a window and look out at the world and
realize that you're alive that this is
all a miracle that none of this is
guaranteed that every breath you take
could be your last and in that you can
choose to cherish what you have in that
you can decide to focus on that you have
a breath to take and even when it's
something that simple when you train
your mind to do that when you train
yourself to decide to see the beauty in
that that nobody can ever take it away
from you i no matter where you are
no matter what's going on in your life
you'll be able to rise up and feel the
beauty that is being alive so take a
minute at the worst times in your life
and focus on the things that you're
grateful for
I want you to burn into your nervous
system the following statement because
it is a fundamental truth of the human
condition it is literally the base line
physics of what it means to be a person
as Earl Nightingale said we become what
we think about and that's an idea that I
want you to hold firmly in your mind
that's something that I really want you
to internalize I really want you to stop
right now whatever you're doing I want
you to stop lean into this video and
listen to what I'm saying you will
become what you think about really think
about that for a second as if it wasn't
just a phrase as if it's more than just
words as if it were a truth about how
the brain works because it is you're
going to become the thing that you think
about and I know that you're dwelling on
a lot of negative [__] I know that
you're carrying a lot of baggage with
you and I know that as you think about
how things might go wrong that you
believe you believe to the core of your
being that you're just planning for the
hard times but the truth is you're going
to become those things that you fear
you're going to become the things that
you dread if you're thinking about all
the things you've done long in the past
you are going to simply continue that
cycle but if on the other hand and let
this be true let this ring in your ears
with the weight of everything that I
carry if I've ever added an ounce of
value to you if anything I have ever
said it seems remotely true believe that
these are the most important words I'm
ever going to save you if you begin
to focus on positive things if you begin
to focus on your capabilities if you
begin to focus on a potential that you
have if you really dig in build those
skills drive towards something beautiful
something amazing something that leaves
you in awe but you want to create that
you want to become the vessel for that
then you will you will become that thing
because you will take those steps
because you become what you think about
and as Mark Twain said 20 years from now
you'll be more disappointed by the
things that you didn't do so if you
don't take those steps if you don't
focus on those things if you don't
manifest what you want to become if you
don't believe in it if you don't see how
real it could be if you can't picture
the version of yourself that you want to
become and even though people have told
you that it's not possible for you that
the things you did in the past are never
going to allow you to do that but you're
not smart enough if you let that creep
into your mind then that's what's gonna
happen but if you can see that vision if
you can allow yourself to believe it
then you're going to take the steps that
you need to execute against that and if
you go out there and do those things you
won't regret it but you will regret it
if you don't
so get out right now and build the
person you want to be so you can have
the life you want to have
[Music]
you